Removed obsolete ms.prod tag, FAQ updates, and various other misc changes (#237)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/about/faq.md

---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
description: Common questions and answers about vcpkg
ms.date: 01/10/2024
ms.topic: faq
---
# Frequently Asked Questions

## What are classic mode and manifest mode?

> In general, there are two ways to manage your dependencies with vcpkg:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to manage your dependencies with vcpkg:
```

> 1. **Manifest mode** lets you declare your direct dependencies, version constraints, and registries used in a file called *vcpkg.json*. This file should be included in your code repo and can be checked in to your source control system. Dependencies will be installed in a subfolder of your repo called *vcpkg_installed*. This way, each code project can have its own set of dependencies; nothing is installed system-wide. You can run vcpkg in manifest mode by running `vcpkg install` (with no other arguments), or by taking advantage of the automatic integration vcpkg manifests have for MSBuild and CMake projects. In general, we recommend using manifests for your projects over classic mode in most cases, as you have better control over your dependencies. See our [Manifest mode article](../concepts/manifest-mode.md) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Manifest mode** lets you declare your direct dependencies, version constraints, and used registries in a file called [`vcpkg.json`](../reference/vcpkg-json.md). This file should be included in your code's repository and can be checked in to your source control system. Dependencies are installed in a subfolder named `vcpkg_installed`. This way, each code project can have its own set of dependencies; nothing is installed system-wide. You can run vcpkg in manifest mode by running `vcpkg install` (with no other arguments), or by taking advantage of the automatic [integration with MSBuild](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md) and [CMake projects](../users/buildsystems/cmake-integration.md). We recommend using manifests for your projects over classic mode in most cases, as you have better control over your dependencies. See our [manifest mode article](../concepts/manifest-mode.md) for more details.
```

## How do I update libraries?

If you are using a manifest (vcpkg.json file) to manage your dependencies, you need to update that file. See the [versioning reference documentation](../users/versioning.md) for details.

If you are using vcpkg in classic mode (running commands to manage packages, no manifest file), see the [`vcpkg update` command documentation](../commands/update.md). This command lists all packages which are out-of-sync with your current portfiles. You will then need to run the [`vcpkg upgrade` command](../commands/upgrade.md) to confirm the changes.

## How do I get more libraries?

The list of libraries is enumerated from the [`ports\`](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/ports) directory. By design, you can add and remove libraries from this directory as you see fit for yourself or your company -- see our examples on packaging [zipfiles](../examples/packaging-zipfiles.md) and [GitHub repos](../examples/packaging-github-repos.md).

We recommend cloning directly from [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg) and using `git pull` to update the list of portfiles.

## Can I build a private library with this tool?

> Yes. Follow [our packaging zlib example](../examples/packaging-zipfiles.md) for creating a portfile using a fake URL. Then, either pre-seed the `downloads\` folder with a zip containing your private sources or replace the normal calls to `vcpkg_download_distfile` and `vcpkg_extract_source_archive` with functions that unpack your source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes. Follow [our packaging example](../get_started/get-started-packaging.md) to create your own port and see the [overlay ports](../concepts/overlay-ports.md) and [registries](../concepts/registries.md) documentation to learn how to manage your private ports.
```
